Physics Ray cast and Ray cast Command Schedule batch.
In this video, we'll cover what are spatial queries in physics?
Why are they useful and how do we do them?
Then we'll open up the Unity editor and play with them.
Let's take a step back.
What do we mean when we talk about a game physics system?
Well, there's two major parts.
Most of this course so far has talked about rigid body simulation.
This is the realistic movement and interaction between groups of objects.
We haven't yet talked much about spatial queries.
This is projecting a ray or a collider through space to see about distance and check future collisions.
For example, we could see is my gun pointing directly toward the enemy.
The physics class defines global physics, properties and helper methods.
Our focus will be on physics recast one of the methods that gives us some great information we can learn.
Is there anything in front of my object?
What exactly is in front of my object?
What?
Empty space is in front of the object?
So why do spatial queries?
Well, spatial queries can help us answer a lot of compelling questions.
Is our enemy near a wall?
Well, the enemy could turn around.
Is the enemy in our gun sights?
Well, we could indicate to us as the player that now is time to shoot.
Can the enemy see me?
This could help the enemy.
AI alert.
Other enemy.
AI is an object under my mouse position.
This could help us select or drag the object.
Where exactly within a collider did the collision occur?
This could tell us the difference in points rewarded for a bull's eye shot at a target or a lower point
value.
And there's much more possible.
This is very useful stuff.
The physics class that I mentioned has a lot of methods available for us.
Let's talk about recast.
Take a look at the diagram here.
Imagine that we cast array from point one and we cast it in a direction toward the pink box.
This is going to return us a ordered list of intersecting colliders in the scene.
In this case, it would return number three.
Now, notice that we're not going to cast out into infinite space here.
We're going to use a set finite distance that's an optimization that's going to help the calculations.
So, for example, if we have the distance set to four, we would collide with the pink box, but not
the blue box.
A similar method would be box cast.
This cast a shape out from the point one through to the pink cube, but not to the blue cube.
The distance here is instead of sending out a line or array, it's a thicker space.
The array cast, command schedule, batch functions, something like the physics recast, but it's much,
much faster.
The operations will be performed asynchronously and in parallel on parallel processors if they're available.
This gives us blazing fast speed.
It's a relatively new feature to unity, but it's publicly available.
Let's see some demos.
We'll take a look at the Ray cast demo.
We'll play the scene and inspect the code.
Here.
We're going to be looking at the recast demo.
We run the scene.
And this capsule, as we can see with the red guideline here, it is sending out a rate cast below it.
And then in the console window, it's showing us what it's colliding with.
So the red line, as you'd expect, it's saying the ramp is close below.
Now, if I manually move this off of the ramp, it then says the floor is close below.
So you can see we can detect which object is below us or in whatever direction we want and get some
information about it.
Let's see how that works.
In the update.
What we do is we use physics, recast, and we cast a ray in the direction of downward.
Then if there's a collider there that we've collided with, we'll check the layer of it.
If it's a floor layer, in this case, we do a debug log.
Perhaps your character's footsteps change sound when he's walking on a metal surface or on top of water.
You could do things like that.
And that's it.
We'll take a look at the Ray cast command demo.
We'll play the scene and inspect the code.
All right, let's open up the Ray cast command demo.
Here.
We've got a familiar setup from our Recast demo, but with recast command.
What we're going to do is a slightly different way to get the end result here.
So similar to the last one we've got, ramp is close below in our console.
We move out, the floor is close below in our console, so we're detecting what's beneath us.
Let's see that the implementation here is different.
Inside the recast command.
What we're doing is inside the update.
Every update, I'm creating a new recast command here, and I'm scheduling a batch of commands.
Now, in this simple example, what I'm doing here is I'm populating a list of commands with only one.
I'm putting it the zero index one command.
But you can imagine if you had a complex scene where you happen to be doing a lot of recasting, we
could put them all into the same commands list and call schedule batch.
Once.
What we can do then is we can guarantee we're getting really fast results because this is going to happen
asynchronously and it's also going to happen on multiple cores.
If the computer or the device you're running on has multiple processing.
Then down here, similar to the last example, we just go through the hits that we've got and we see
if for any of the hits, if there's a collider present and if it's either the floor or the ramp, that's
it.
A bonus assignment.
If you want to get a bit deeper into Ray casting, check out the Ray cast drag and drop demo, play
the scene and inspect the code.
In the next video we'll look at physics, debugging, debug, draw ray physics, debugger window and
profile a window.
In this video we'll cover what is the bugging?
What are the challenges of debugging physics?
What tools do we have that help us out?
And finally, we'll open up the Unity editor and we'll play with all this.